two out of three businesses fail and so
that means within 10 years if we were to
look back at these business owners two
out of three are out of the game every
business that I've started since 2016
still continues to make money to this
day so here's how to make your business
Unstoppable there's three steps it
starts with stop selling small customers
your business May Fail not because you
are a failure but maybe because the
customers you serve are failures let me
tell you a story to explain this so
there was a small M CRM back in the day
that approached me about investing I
asked them what their turn was so what
percentage of customers were leaving
between last month and this month and
their answer surprised me it was a much
higher percentage than I expected
because I thought a CRM they're
processing their payments through here
they have all their memberships in there
like this should be a very sticky
product and I said so where is the churn
coming from and they said oh well about
a third of the gyms go out of business
every year and I was like Wow wait a
second so this has nothing to do with
how good your product or service was
these businesses in and of themselves
just stopped being in business the
formal language for that is called
structural turn it means it's like it's
based it's baked into the structure of
the market that you serve now the
question is is that your choice to
pursue that market and the answer is yes
a lot of business owners struggle in the
business and they look at everything
except for the most important thing
which is they they messed up the pick
Chick-fil-A's head of people gives a
great example of this when they talk
about actually Talent selection but I
think the parallel holds they said most
people lose in the NBA in the
Championships and wonder what they did
wrong in the game when in reality they
lost in the draft as and they didn't
have the right people on the team and so
if you think about your business as an
ecosystem the right people in the team
has to be all the stakeholders including
the customers and so if you're thinking
about your own business there are many
business models that simply aren't fit
for smaller customers and so I'll give
you a different example in the agency
world where you do some sort of
advertising for any type of business if
you look at some of the biggest ad
agencies in the world you'll notice a
common theme they all serve the biggest
customers in the world whereas if it
were true that agencies would be best
served serving small customers then some
of the biggest agencies would serve some
of the smallest customers but that's not
reality in looking at this it means that
just like the CRM business and that's
arguably one of the stickiest businesses
you could possibly imagine the
agencies could not keep churn down with
small business owners because small
business owners in of themselves are
volatile let me give you a visual so
let's imagine this is kind of
representing the the es and flows of the
revenue of a small business now let's
say they decide to work with you here
they say you know what we're going to
sign up with you and you get paid now
maybe you start advertising the business
and then the next month they make a
little bit more money hooray everyone's
happy now the next month the normal
volatility occurs or maybe because you
sent them more customers than they could
handle they say hey maybe we need to
ease off a little bit and all of a
sudden they think to themselves wait a
second
I'm back in the same position I was
before but now I've got still more
customers than I had before that and now
you know what I'm actually making less
money the next month and so what happens
here
they they become one of these for you
they cancel right this is the point of
cancellation and so what happens is that
there's many businesses like small
agencies that do lead generation for
small customers and continue to wonder
what do I need to do in order to make my
business sticky and they kill themselves
trying to figure it out when the problem
is inherent to who they serve is that
they are volatile and as a result your
business will be volatile too it
reflects on to you now to give you an
absolute hypothetical extreme here to
give you an example Shopify is what most
would consider world class or
best-in-class for customer retention but
they serve by and large prosumers
meaning consumers who want to start a
business and let me give you a stat that
might blow you away
60% of their customer stay year but 40%
leave and that's the best in the world
and so in thinking about this you'll
typically need to have a business that
has almost a zero cost of servicing the
smallest business owners if that's the
game you want to play if you want to be
Walmart then you have to orient your
entire strategy on basically a zeroc
cost basis for providing value which
works in softare Ware companies or like
Walmart where the entire model is
structured such that it creates the
smallest cost to them so their
alternative is really not having it at
all right now there was one agency that
did really well with this Mutual
acquaintance of mine what he did was
that he basically provided marketing
services but for about
$299 per month now what he realized was
this vola and this was a guy who used to
charge a lot more than that what he
realized is that with this volatility he
had to price
to their worst month and so it's like
okay what's the lowest part of this this
volatile range this wave of Revenue that
these small businesses are going to
encounter okay well then I'll just put
my price here and that way I'm so cheap
that they'll never cancel and the cost
of them doing the services that he
rendered which was actually far less
than the guys who were charging call it
$1,500 a month which is probably like
the industry standard for a small
business or local local business lead
genen all of a sudden he's one fifth the
price but he just provided still more
value than the $300 and so it still felt
like a good deal here because all you
would do is you would optimize their
Google stuff get them a few leads a few
phone calls a month and for them they're
like okay if I get a couple customers
it's worth it this it's so expensive
relative to what they made that if you
weren't saving the day every single
month the question they'll always ask is
what have you done for me lately this is
one of the big misconceptions that
business owners have and I've made this
myself we which is you see this right
you see this Delta that you created
you're like look you went from $1 sign
to $2 signs all of this extra money was
because of me right but the thing is is
that if you make someone $10,000 right
in the first month you work with them
and let's say you charge them a th000 in
your mind you say oh well this 9k is
because of me which means I just bought
another nine months of service with you
right because I made you $9,000 I charge
1,000 bucks a month so I could basically
just break even for the next N9 months
but try actually having that
conversation in reality it doesn't work
that way what happens in reality is this
they pay $11,000 they make 10 they make
the extra nine and they say oh that
$11,000 was worth it this month and
guess what happens next
month you start at zero actually you
start at negative 1,000 because they've
already paid you a th000 and they
haven't made any money yet and so again
it's always going to be relative to when
they pay and what they get relative to
that and so this is where this
volatility ends up becoming a trap for
most business owners and when you're
starting a business or even when you're
a few years into the business you'll
often sell the people that you relate to
and so you'll sell out of your own
wallet to solve your own problems but
the problem there is that those people
will never become reliable it's like
building your business on a foundation
of sand it doesn't matter how beautiful
of a castle you can imagine in your mind
one bad storm on on a foundation of sand
and it's going to topple over and so you
end up just getting in this endless
cycle of trying to iterate your products
create different offers and all this
stuff but the fundamental issue is
you're serving somebody who's never
going to who's never going to stay in
pay because of them not you so for
example if you have a supplement
business it's unlikely that you're going
to get very high stick if you're super
expensive and your product Suite is only
geared towards beginners and beginners
turn out as in they go to the gym they
stop going to the gym they go to the gym
they stop going to the gym now if you
had a business that was geared around
the regular user or somebody who already
let's say takes protein every day and
you truly have a Superior product and
then that entire base of people who
takes protein shakes every day is
willing to take yours instead of someone
else's then you have a customer that is
already a qualified customer who's going
to continue to take the product over and
over again but when you target beginners
whether it's b2c or B2B obviously the
price differences are significant
between businesses and consumers but
they are still beginners within that
Continuum and so you will have the churn
in relation to how much of a beginner
they are and so my preferred way to
think about this is if you think about
this pyramid as representation of the
marketplace based on their spending
power right if you know at the base
you're always going to have the most
people that have the least amount of
money to spend and so whether it's B2B
or B Toc like b2c it's going to be base
beginners for whatever it is that you
sell if it's B2B it's going to be the
smallest business owners so it could be
you know consumers becoming prosumers or
prosumers becoming vnbs which is a very
small business and then vmbs becoming
smbs which is small business owners and
then and then you have low midm market
midmarket and then you all you go all
the way up to uh you know Fortune 100
companies right my preferred way to
structure a business model is to
actually start at the top and the reason
for this is that because there's little
operational drag because you have fewer
customers you need to take care of
they're able to spend significantly more
they are going to be around a while and
they know their numbers and they can
stick with their commitment so if you
have a contract for example and they say
they'll pay you a million dollars a year
the likely they pay you is significantly
higher then a beginner saying he's going
to pay you $10,000 over 10 months very
unlikely I would make that bet so much
so that corporate debt is an entire
investable asset class based on the
promises that business make to repay
things the cool part about this from a
branding perspective is that you learn
how to service SE much higher end
customers and with that reputation then
there are customers who are going to be
underneath who are then going to say you
know what I would love to be able to
work with somebody who works with the
400 I can't afford that you say you know
what I can make it a little bit more
affordable for you but you're going to
get a little bit less service for that
and you can work your way down now
here's where it gets really clever is
that as you work your way down you're
consistently making more money and at
this point when you go further and
further down this this Rabbit Hole
you're going to be able to spend the
money it takes to create the automated
solution or the software based or
technological based Solution that's
going to have a a near zero cost basis
for you as a business owner so that you
can profitably serve this itty bitty
these itty bitty dollar signs here
without the headache associated with
beginners fundamentally if you sell to
beginners you're going to have to either
sell a really big ticket one time that's
based on an emot emotional purchase and
you're doing what I would consider a
smash and grab business solar for
example is kind of what I would consider
a smash and and grab business people go
in they sell the they sell solar and
then it's on the roof and then that's
kind of it and so it's really just
massively just trying to sell every
single person that exists and that's all
there is to it or you have to create
something that's the price to Value
discrepancy is so absurd because what's
crazy about this is that the price to
value for poor people actually has to be
higher than it is for the people at the
top because here's the part here's the
part that people Miss think about this
there are people who cancel the $12 per
month Netflix charge like what else
could Netflix offer they give you like
every movie you could imagine every new
shows they do everything and still some
people are like you know I'm not really
sure if it's worth it for me right and
so if you take that as hypothetical
cream you can take the same thing for
for Spotify how how about I give you
every song that is possible in in the
universe you have access to it whenever
you want on your phone in your
pocket eight bucks is a lot eight bucks
is a lot for that right I don't know Mr
Spotify right and so this the thing is
is like I know many of you have these
businesses and are wondering looking at
yourself and like what more can I offer
it's not about you you have the wrong
model serving the wrong customer and so
you have to have a cost basis as low as
possible with a crazy high price to
Value discrepancy so so you know values
up here prices down here this huge Delta
so that even on their bad months they're
like you know what even though I lost my
job structural turn I'm still willing to
pay the 12 bucks for Netflix and so I
talk about this at length in the $100
million offers book and and I have this
really good visual that I want to show
you this is how crazy it is the thing
you sell doesn't even need to materially
change in order to make it ready and
available for the highest end customers
all right so let's say that you sell
time management all right and you sell
to all these people well you're going to
have to have a probably a $19 price
point see very Mass Market 19 bucks
maybe the next level is like okay well I
want to do time management for sales
professionals well for sales people
maybe You' be able to charge $99 okay
more because sales people were like all
right well you know one sale might pay
for this now what if you then go up to
time management for outbound B2B sales
so this isn't just people selling
memberships or car washes or cleaning
services this is now people selling
let's say enterprise software where
they're making $2,000 a sale in
commissions or whatever so for them to
pay $500 basically it's a quarter of one
sale so they're willing to do that now
let's go all the way up now we've got
time management for outbound B2B Power
Tools and Gardening sales reps so super
specific and high ticket you get super
niched down and you could sell it for
$2,000 but fundamentally time management
is time management and so the likelihood
that the product that you're selling is
really materially different between
these these these different avatars is
is is unlikely but we're choosing to
purposefully narrow down who we sell to
so that we can make more money and have
less operational drag and have less
structural churn as in people canceling
for reasons outside of what we've
delivered and as a result have a much
more stable business that can compound
year-over-year by the way I do have an
entire extra chapter on this that I
wrote between my offers book in my leads
book called uh your first Avatar and it
was kind of like a single that I
produced between the books uh I think
you get it for free at acquisition.
comom Avatar I think that's what it is
um and if not you probably Google it and
you'll probably find it but it's free
just pop in your email we'll tell you
and we'll send it over to you so step
two is to ask not tell your customers
now what do I mean by ask so I'll tell
you a quick story so Paul Graham said
this and I remember hearing it and it
just like got singed into my brain he
said you can solve every business
Problem by simply talking to your
customers and I thought that was such an
elegant answer and also true it's easy
to make a py response it's hard to make
it useful and valuable all the time and
this is one of those rare instances
where it's both and so I'll tell you a
story so when I had Allen which was our
software company which is the third
company that I started after 2016 I
originally made in my mind to serve gym
owners once we spent a million plus
dollars on developing this thing and
actually rolled it out to gym owners we
had this big obvious problem that came
up which is they said oh this is so
great this will work all my leads by the
way can you help me get more leads and I
was like oh no we completely missed the
mark and so what ended up happening is
that in my mind I could see that they
had this problem that they weren't
working their leads but what I didn't
realize is that there was only a very
specific amount of Custer customers that
had that problem and so then I had to
think oh gosh okay so I have two
possible scenarios I can either only go
after gym owners who already know how to
generate leads consistently which we're
talking like a tiny tiny tiny
Marketplace and and here's the caveat
that Marketplace still can't pay that
much so bad Market to go after small and
has not a lot of money and shrinking ye
right not a good market so I thought to
myself okay well what businesses always
have lead G well the solution came to me
when an agency owner actually reached
out to me and said hey could I use this
for my business to work the leads that
I'm generating for my small business
owner customers and I was like oh wait a
second small business owners will turn
in and out of the agency services but
the agency will stay because they will
bring new customers in use our software
and even if they turn out with them the
agency will stay with me and so the
agencies had much more reliable Revenue
than their base customers did because
they could reliably sell you know 10 new
customers a month to to offset the 10
customers they lose or whatever and so
many of them were still stable
businesses even though they had lots of
churn which the fact that they couldn't
necessarily have the skill set to grow
their business wasn't necessarily a
problem for me so to the same degree
with the CRM there are some crms that
are very successful even that serve
small business owners but they have to
match the pricing to the spending power
of that small business and Shopify for
example probably makes more than almost
any e-commerce company on the platform
we'd have to fact check it but is
probably pretty close and so the
platform itself actually makes more than
the opportunity Secrets it enables so
this is definitely one of those
situations of selling the shovels rather
than panning for gold and so once I
realized that gym owners were not the
customer and agencies were the customer
I was able to start asking agencies for
the correct feedback and that is when we
were able to continue to iterate the
product in a way that actually served
the right customer so fundamentally when
it comes to product or service based
businesses there's I would say two
schools of thought around product
iteration one is kind of
the rank and build model which is
basically you ask your customers to just
vote up vote and downvote the potential
things that all of them have asked for
and then the one that gets to the top
that month you then say this is the one
that we're going to build and then you
do the build cycle and then you ask it
again and this is not a bad way to do it
it's a different way to do it and what
ends up happening when you have a
business like this is that you keep
building more and more things and so
this can result in kind of these
Frankenstein type businesses but some
customers are okay and want to have all
the features and so this is kind of like
a PC versus MAC kind of product strategy
difference so the PCS is like you have
all the customization all the different
add-ons all the features that has all
these different ways you can use it but
can sometimes be more arduous in terms
of uxx or user experience user design
than a Mac now if you're like how does
this apply for a service business it's
literally the same it's just that the
features that you're building are going
to be around the services that you
provide rather than the actual physical
product or software that you're building
but it works the same way the Mac style
of this is trying to take every single
thing that people want right up and down
up and down and then trying to go from
the
ultimate experience at the end and then
reverse engineer it into a elegant
solution that purposely removes some
things because it interferes with the
other experiences and so when you do the
kind of rank and build model there's
lots of kind of conflicting
contingencies like different customers
want different things and some of the
things that you build for One customer
might actually impact negatively another
customer and so when you do that all of
a sudden you can lose now here the
downside is you're not going to be able
to serve all the needs of every customer
because some of those specific if you're
really specific about stuff then you
might want to have one of these
Solutions and so basically the customer
base that buys Mac stuff is
unsurprisingly different than the
customer base that buys PC stuff and so
for example at school our product
strategy is much more based on this
which is how do we create the most
elegant simplest solution so that we can
help people who are starting out build a
business online and so if we have all of
this customization and things like that
you might serve somebody who's like I
want a white label I want to whatever
right now to be clear these businesses
can obviously still get wildly big and
successful apple is a $3.8 trillion
company Amazon which also kind of
follows this model is a you know also
trillion doll plus business and so there
are different strategies that you need
to decide which one you want to pursue
but both of them work you just can't do
both so there's two questions that I
fundamentally like to ask when I'm
trying to go through this product
iteration cycle so the first one is if
there was only one thing that was left
after I deleted every other component of
my service product what one thing would
you want me to keep the second version
of that question is the equal opposite
if I kept everything except for one
thing what thing would you not care at
all about and then you delete that thing
and you see who complains and to be
clear you don't announce that you delete
it you just delete it and then see what
happens and then if you get complaints
you ask yourself the question are these
the types of customers that I want to
keep because sometimes the people who
complain are the ones that you don't
want in which case win-win for more info
on this I cover this at length in the
referral section of $100 million leads
and so in the referral section I talk
about how do you get more people better
results so this is fundamentally product
iteration and so the idea here is how do
we increase the perceived likelihood of
achievement the process that I like to
follow here so I have our action steps
right so you survey customers to find
the ones who get the best results step
one step two is you interview them to
find out what they did differently all
right so this is a behavior thing so on
one level you want to look at
demographics do they look different the
second is do they have a different user
path do they come in a different way do
they have a different promise number
three and this is the one that we're
referencing here is did they take
actions that not everyone necessarily
took we look at those actions that only
those people had in common and then what
we do is we take those actions and we
force new customers to repeat those
actions on purpose that the best
customers did by accident and then we
measure the Improvement of the average
customer based on those new behaviors
that we're incentivizing them towards or
at least pushing them towards and then
what we do if you want to get really
fancy with it is you can match the
conditions of your guarantee to the
actions that get the best results to get
more people to do them said differently
if you realize that the best customers
for example import all of their contacts
into your CRM when you're starting the
CRM you would then try and create the
onboarding experience and a guarantee
says hey we will guarantee that you'll
have some improvement using our software
service product as long as you export
and import all of your contacts into our
CRM within the first 30 days and so now
we have shown our hand to say this is
very valuable to us and it will be
valuable to you this app
process can fix any Department that's
customer facing obviously it can't fix
it but it can fix marketing so if all of
a sudden your ads aren't doing well show
your ads to customers and ask them
what's missing or what's what's not
working why would they not respond to
this what ads did you find that
resonated the most with you because I
want more people like you product you're
say okay what's wrong with this picture
what show me what's difficult watch
users actually interface with your
product or services so that you can
understand the friction points before
during and after and so I like to use
the three term contingency of before
during after to think through any kind
of change that I have for a customer
what's going to happen immediately
before they buy my product what's going
to happen immediately before they use my
product what's going to happen during
the time that they use the product like
what are the interactions they have and
then what happens immediately after
right and those are the places that we
are have the closest and strongest
leverage over the ultimate customer
results and the value that we provide
and same thing with sales like if people
are getting on the sales calls and
they're not buying then you ask
customers what about my offer what about
the way that we're presenting it is not
compelling to you and just as valuable
sometimes more if you can get them is
interviewing the people who said no and
say why not one of the best things you
can do is just pay them like I'll pay
$100 to hop on a phone call with me and
just tell me what we could have done
better and you know what's crazy is that
a lot of times you just even doing that
does give you a second shot at the sale
which is by no means the uh objective
you just want to get the information
because that information is so much more
valuable than the $100 and maybe the
hour that you'd give so number one once
we've picked the right customers who
aren't going to have structural turn
based the business model that we have
two we have the the thing that that type
of customer wants well we need to keep
improving that product so we don't get
outcompeted in the marketplace by new
entrance or new businesses who are
trying to take our slice of the pie the
third thing that we have to do to make
your business Unstoppable is don't
pretend to be something you're not and
you're like what does that even mean so
let me tell you this quote that I love
and then I'll get in the story this is
by Shane Parish success comes down to
doing the obvious thing for an
extraordinary period of time without
convincing yourself that you're smarter
than you actually are and I love this
quote for a number of reasons first off
because it's so true here's my easiest
visual for you actually I'm going see if
I can get the right right colors for the
markers so this is going to be a tough
one let's see if I can do draw this I've
never drawn this before so forgive me if
this
sucks oops that
up looks like a dog with a cly Q so this
is a
pig not a dog and
so and so here's the saying that I love
about this oh it's cuz I put a dog nose
on it I should have put I should have
put little little little front snout
okay well whatever you get the idea so
if you put lipstick on a
pig it's still a pig and so if you put a
little bit you sprinkle a little bit of
software into your service business it's
still a service business right and so if
like 90% of your Revenue comes from
service and here's the here's the tricky
part if 90% of the value comes from the
service they will still determine that
it's a service-based business and
arguably the likelihood that you will
get the economics that a software
company has with the service business is
low let me tell you a story to
illustrate the point so there was a
Solar Company that I was talking to that
had 400 sales guys so a big Solar
Company that did very well and the
founders uh were young enterprising guys
super ambitious they came to me and said
hey we want to have a monstrous
valuation for my for our company and I
said I think you already do have a
monstrous valuation for your company
they said well we know that software
companies get valued significantly
higher than kind of the transactional
sales nature of solar and I said you're
right and so what and so they were like
well we have this software that we have
that we use to recruit salespeople and
make them more productive and that's why
we have such a big and productive sales
team and so we were thinking about was
taking that software and then licensing
it to other solar companies and I told
them that I thought that was a terrible
idea now why would I say something like
that well in theory if you had a
software company that had the same
Revenue metrics as your solar sales
company then you would have a
significantly more valuable company but
number one is for you to get those same
economics you're not selling $30,000
things the likelihood that you'd be able
to get even close to the amount of
Revenue per customer would be
significantly lower number two is the
amount of people that can buy solar
roofs versus the amount of solar
companies is way smaller third neither
of these Founders were software people
and so what they wanted to do was kind
of like pretend to be software and just
say like oh we'll just sell some people
into this thing and then we're going to
get a software multiple on the entirety
of our Revenue that's not how it works
you have to remember that the person
who's writing a 100 200 500 billion
dollar check is smart enough to have a
1002 200 or a billion dollars to spend
they know the difference between a Solar
Company and a software company software
companies and companies that get
extraordinarily High multiples
don't get high multiples because of the
name or the label that's associated with
them they get those extraordinarily High
multiples because of the nature of the
revenue and the quality of the revenue
that they have and the potential for
gross profit in the future and so if you
have a service based business that has
the exact same economics as a software
company you will get software like
multiples and Enterprise Value you want
to solve for the things that matter
which is you want to solve for Revenue
retention you want to solve for
incremental margin you want to solve for
logo retention over meaning number of
businesses that are staying on on your
platform or on your inside of your
business you want to solve for being
able to onboard low value people to be
able to provide high value Services
right so this is where like a tech
enabled service can be more valuable
than a traditional service because a
tech enabled service might be able to
take one person and have them serve 50
customers rather than one person and
have them serve five but it's not
because it's Tech enabled it's because
you have now 10x the value that any
individual employee can provide and
lower the skill barrier for somebody to
provide that value and so that
translates into higher gross margins
lower cost of acquiring talent and
higher percentage of customers that stay
every year which means that the business
will compound year over year every year
and so you can wash away all of the
labels that people ascribe to business
and simply boil it down to the metrics
and the unit economics of the business
to then ascertain fancy word figure out
what the Enterprise value multiple of
the businesses because it's only going
to be a discount off of how big and How
likely that bigness is to occur in the
future for an investor a lot of small
business owners entrepreneurs want to
get the maximum amount of money for
their business in the future and that
makes sense you should do that but the
way you do that is not by trying to
pretend to be a different type of
business it's not by taking your you
know lawn care business and trying to
say actually we're a s we're a software
business is not trying to take your
e-commerce business and saying actually
we're a platform it doesn't work that
way it all boils down to the actual math
and so the easiest analogy is if you
think about your business as a pig and
this is the world's ugliest pig if you
put lipstick on the pig it's still a pig
and so if you put lipstick or you
sprinkle some software on your lawn care
business or your local service business
it's still a local service business and
one of the mistakes that I honestly see
all the time is where people will take
their service say I'll give you the
service for free if you use the software
but here's the problem the revenue will
look just like service Revenue
and so just because you Bill through a
software system if you still have the
same churn as a service business and the
same margins as a service business then
they will still value you like a service
business you'll get valued based on a
multiple of bottom line which is fine
it's just not going to be a Top Line
multiple or some big number on top of
that because that's not the nature of
the business you're in and that's okay
so I think just leaning into who you are
and what your business really is rather
than wasting a tremendous amount of time
trying to be something you're not not
would serve a huge percentage of
business owners they think because the
grass is greener on the software side
man they're getting 10x value multiples
well do you know how hard it is to get
80% of people to stick on a software and
do it in a way where you're making that
kind of money but it's but it's at $50 a
month instead of $5,000 a month well
they kind in some ways it's like they
kind of deserve it right like all of a
sudden it's like it's really hard to get
5,000 customers to pay $1,000 a month
for B2B software really tough but is it
is it is it nearly as hard to do some
sort of service at that level probably
not and so when we think about it from
that perspective the differences between
valuations actually equalize I'll tell
you one more story on this so I recently
invested in a treatment center and we
were talking about uh the business model
and so basically there's two there's
more permutations but this said simply
there's two kind of models in the
treatment world so model one is you
stick with primarily insurance and you
get people to you know the insurance
companies send you people who need to
you know come off addictions detox Etc
and you get paid a fix kind of rate per
day based on the insurance that the
person comes in with the second type of
company is more you know private
insurance and cash pay where people are
just paying out of pocket or they're
paying with you know I would say premium
insurances where they could pay
somewhere in the neighborhood of like
$3,000 a day so way more money per day
than maybe the uh insurance-based uh
detox business for example now which
business do you think gets higher
multiples the insurance-based one
because the likel that the insurance
pays is high and the likel that you're
going to keep getting customers from
those insurance or Medicare companies
things like that is high and so it
becomes a reliable business but the
margins are lower and you have to deal
with more volume now on the alternative
side on the cash Bas side you might have
call it half the Enterprise multiple
value so instead of getting a 10x maybe
get a five or 6X on the value of the
business in terms of bottom line but if
you can charge two or three times more
return on effort might actually be the
same or even better in the cash pay I
make this point to say you don't want to
try and build for some label that you
think someone's going to ascribe to you
you just want to build for the ultimate
Enterprise Value which may just be doing
better with the thing you have which is
mo more times than not the right move
which is why I'll resay this quote that
I said at the beginning which is Success
comes down to doing the obvious thing
continuing to build your business for an
extraordinary period of time much longer
than you think without convincing
yourself that you're smarter than you
are without actually changing the label
of your business trying to pretend to be
a software company trying to pretend to
be a platform trying to pretend tend to
be Tech enabled just do what you do and
do it well and do it for a long time and
it always takes longer costs more and
it's harder than you expected to be but
it's the expectation that was the
problem not your plan so now that we
have the base we have the right
customers for the model that we're in we
have a way to iterate our products that
we stay ahead of the market and we have
the discipline to continue to double
down on the model we have rather than
try and ascribe some crazy label make
some reinvestments into things that
aren't going to actually serve us once
we have that base then you can watch
this next video how to make so much
money it should feel legal